Synopsis for CURES

In 2013, Wormwood Pharmaceutical Corp and EloInc Medical Technologies announced similar, but different, medical breakthroughs. Competing pioneers in the arena of Gene Therapy treatments, Wormwood was the first to announce that they had created what would, for the remainder of the year, be known as "The Cure". It was a simple series of shots that, with no observable side effects, would allow the body to more efficiently make use of cell creation and degeneration. To the layman, it accomplished two nearly miraculous things: It slowed the aging process, and it prevented the overproduction of cells, effectively curing cancer, all based off of a patented human gene sequence. The demand was so incredibly high, only the most wealthy could afford it. Those that could were quick to see the effects of the therapy, and the Wormwood Corp. was quick to see it's stocks rise through the roof. 

EloInc, in the first month of 2014, announced it's own radical treatment: An immune system booster that radically re-wrote the way the body dealt with intruders. It prevented many diseases from taking hold, giving doctors more time to stop outbreaks before they could become truly contagious. What was unexpected was a slight increase in the resiliency of the Helper T cells. Two months after the first human trials, EloInc proudly announced that their Gene Therapy regiment successfully cured HIV/AIDs. What's more, it could be cheaply produced and administered in a single shot, as opposed to WormWood's much more expensive and intensive procedures. 

Wormwood CEO Brian Horowitz had anticipated the rise of copycats, so in his patented sequence he left a small genetic signature in the human junk DNA, one that rendered other therapies useless. Despite the good-natured personality of EloInc President Deborah Delaney, she too used a similar, "Harmless" genetic signature. The result was that any further therapies could only come from the corporation that administered the patients first. Coke Vs. Pepsi, Red Sox Vs. Yankees, Wormwood Vs. EloInc: Brand loyalty had come to medicine, and with a vengeance. 

Five years after the 'Cures', the birth rate in first world countries began to drop slowly. More and more couples began to report difficulty conceiving, despite all parties testing as perfectly healthy. When the medical community came to understand the full scope of the issue,




